[Term Entry] PHP Array Method: array_splice() (#3056)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/arrays/terms/array-splice/array-splice.md

---
Title: 'array_splice()'

> Description: 'Removes a set of elements from an array and replaces them with a new set of elements'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Removes a set of elements from an array and replaces them with a new set of elements.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn/php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`array_splice()`** method takes an array as it's input value and replaces elements within the array with new elements. The developer can specify within the method the index value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`array_splice()`** method takes an array as it's input value and replaces elements within the array with new elements. The developer can specify within the method the starting index value for the replacement values, and the length of the values to be replaced.
```

> the replacement values begin as well as the length of index values to be replaced in the original array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
array_splice($input_array, $starting_index, $replacement_length, $replacement_values)
```

The `array_splice()` method has two required parameters and two optional parameters.

**Required Parameters**

>   - `$input_array`: Is the original array that will recieve the new elements.
>   - `$starting_index`: Is the index value that specifies where the replacement elements will start within the `$input_array`. If a positive number is provided the replacement will start at that
>   index value. 1 = second value of the `array`. If a negative number is provided the replacement will start at that number from the last index value. -3 = third value from last of the `array`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `$input_array`: The original array that will recieve the new elements.
  - `$starting_index`: The index value that specifies where the replacement elements will start within the `$input_array`. 
  
 > **Note:** Positive and negative index values are valid arguments for the `$starting_index`. A negative number  counts from the last index value in the array (i.e. -3 equals third value from last).
```

>   **Optional Parameters**

Reviewer: this header should not be indented

>     - `$replacement_length`: Is the length of values to be replaced within the `$input_array`. 2 = two values will be replaced within `$input_array` starting at `$starting_index`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `$replacement_length`: The length of values to be replaced within the `$input_array`. 
```

>     - `$replacement_values`: Is an array that contains the new values that will be 'spliced' into the `$input_array`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `$replacement_values`: An array that contains the new values that will be 'spliced' into the `$input_array`.
```

>       - **Note** If there is only one replacement value a `string` can be used in place of an `array`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If there is only one replacement value a `string` can be used in place of an `array`.
```

## Example

This example demonstrates a use of `array_splice()`.

```php
<?php
  $colors_array = array("red", "orange", "yellow", "green", "blue", "purple");
  $new_colors = array("dandelion yellow", "forest green");
  array_splice($colors_array, 2, 2, $new_colors);
  print_r($colors_array);
?>
```

This is the output of the previous example:

```shell
Array (
  [0] => "red"
  [1] => "orange"
  [2] => "dandelion yellow"
  [3] => "forest green"
  [4] => "blue"
  [5] => "purple"
)
```

## Codebyte Example

> This runnable codebyte example demonstrates a before (the array in it's original state) and after (the array after alteration by array_splice()) of an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This runnable codebyte example demonstrates an alteration using `array_splice()`.
```

  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn/php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`array_splice()`** method takes an array as it's input value and replaces elements within the array with new elements. The developer can specify within the method the starting index value for the replacement values, and the length of the values to be replaced.

## Syntax

```pseudo
array_splice($input_array, $starting_index, $replacement_length, $replacement_values)
```

The `array_splice()` method has two required parameters and two optional parameters.

**Required Parameters**
  - `$input_array`: The original array that will recieve the new elements.
  - `$starting_index`: The index value that specifies where the replacement elements will start within the `$input_array`.

  > **Note:** Positive and negative index values are valid arguments for the `$starting_index`. A negative number counts from the last index value in the array (i.e. -3 equals third value from last).

**Optional Parameters**
  - `$replacement_length`: The length of values to be replaced within the `$input_array`.
  - `$replacement_values`: An array that contains the new values that will be 'spliced' into the `$input_array`.

>   > **Note:** If there is only one replacement value a `string` can be used in place of an `array`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If there is only one replacement value a `string` can be used in place of an `array`.
```
